editorial pass on security considerations section (#515)
quicwg/multipath: draft-ietf-quic-multipath.md

all at the same time. Further multiple paths could be initialized
simultaneously. Each open path could be used to further amplify an attack.
Therefore, endpoints need to limit the maximum number of paths and might consider
additional measures to limit the number of concurrent path validation processes
e.g. by pacing them out or limiting the number of path initiation attempts
over a certain time period.

## Cryptographic handshake and AEAD Nonce

The multipath extension as specified in this document is only enabled after a
successful handshake when both endpoints indicate support for this extension.
Respectively, all new frames defined in this extension are only used in 1-RTT packets.
As the handshake is not changed by this extension, the transport security mechanisms
as specified in {{QUIC-TLS}}, such as encryption key exchange and peer authentication,
remain unchanged. As such, the respective security considerations in {{QUIC-TLS}} apply unaltered. However, note that the limits as discussed on Appendix B of {{QUIC-TLS}}
apply to the total number of packets sent on all paths.

This specification changes the AEAD calculation by using the path identifier as part of

> AEAD nonce (see {{nonce}}). To ensure a unique nonce, path identifiers
> are limited to 32 bits and cannot be reused for another path of the same connection.
> However, note that with the use of this extension, multiple nonces can be in use simultaneously
> for the same AEAD key.

Author: This proposed change removes the last sentences but also edits the previous sentence a bit.
```suggestion
AEAD nonce (see {{nonce}}). To ensure unique nonces for simultaneous use over all paths, path identifiers
are limited to 32 bits and cannot be reused for another path of the same connection.
```
Does this work? @huitema @qdeconinck ?

Reviewer: I don't think that helps. Just remove the last sentence, from "However...".

Reviewer: But yes, do replace "a unique nonce" by "unique nonces".

Author: ```suggestion
AEAD nonce (see {{nonce}}). To ensure unique nonces, path identifiers
are limited to 32 bits and cannot be reused for another path of the same connection.
```

# Security Considerations

The multipath extension retains all security properties of {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}} and {{QUIC-TLS}}
but requires some additional consideration regarding:

- potential additional resource usage for per-path connection IDs and multiple concurrent path contexts;
- a potentially increased amplification risk for request forgery attacks if multiple paths are used simultaneously;
- changes to the nonce calculation due to the use of multiple packet number spaces.

## Memory Allocation for Per-Path Resources

The maximum Path ID limit in initial_max_path_id or MAX_PATH_ID frame

> limit the number of paths an endpoint is willing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
limits the number of paths an endpoint is willing
```

> to maintain and accordingly thereby also limit the associated path resources.

Reviewer: You can strike out either accordingly or thereby or both. Fewer words is better.

> to maintain and accordingly thereby also limit the associated path resources.

Author: ```suggestion
to maintain and thereby also limit the associated path resources.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to maintain and thereby also limits the associated path resources.
```

Furthermore, as connection IDs have to be issued by both endpoints for the
same Path ID before an endpoint can open a path, each endpoint could also
control the per-path resource usage by only
issuing connection IDs for a limited number of paths. However, using
the maximum Path ID limit in initial_max_path_id or the MAX_PATH_ID frame is preferred.

> To avoid unnecessarily resource usage, that potentially could be exploited

Reviewer 3: Can s/unnecessarily/unnecessary

> in a resource exhaustion attack, endpoints SHOULD allocate additional path resources,

Reviewer: Suggestion:

To avoid unnecessarily resource usage that could be exploited

Fewer words, and also no comma before "that"

such as e.g. for packet number handling, only after path validation has successfully completed.

## Request Forgery with Spoofed Address

Path validation as specified in {{Section 8.2. of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}
for migration is used
unchanged for path initiation in this extension. Therefore, the security considerations
on source address spoofing as outlined in {{Section 21.5.4 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} equally apply.
Similarly, the anti-amplification limits as specified in {{Section 8 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}} need to be
followed to limit the amplification risk.

{{QUIC-TRANSPORT}} only allows the use of one path

> and as such only one path validation at a time.

Reviewer: That text is a bit imprecise. RFC 9000 completely allows the peer to probe multiple address tuples at a time. This is only limited by the number of CID that are available. We have to define what we mean by validation. Validation happens when the server receives a validating packet from the client; if the 4-tuple is already validated (server received a valid response to a path challenge), the server automatically migrates to that new address. It would be simpler to state:

{{QUIC-TRANSPORT}} only allows the use of one path at a time.

Author: Or would be it correct to say:

"{{QUIC-TRANSPORT}} only allows the use of one path
and as such only one path migration at a time."

While you are right that multiple path validation could be on-going (if there are enough CIDs) at the end you con only switch over to one path, so I think saying "one path migration at a time" is correct, no?

Reviewer: No. The focus of the paragraph is on "address spoofing". The typical spoofed challenge / response scenario is:

1. Client sends PATH_CHALLENGE on tuple X
2. Server picks unique CID sends PATH_CHALLENGE + PATH_RESPONSE on symmetric of tuple X
3. Client does not reply because the source address was spoofed.
4. Server repeats PATH_CHALLENGE + PATH_RESPONSE a few time, subject to amplification limits.

Damage happens if the packet sent by the server is accepted and processed by the target because it somehow mimics a valid protocol.

This can be run in parallel for multiple tuples in both RFC9000 and multipath. In RFC9000, the protocol limit is the number of available CID at the server. With multipath, it is limited by the sum of CID available on all paths.

So the multipath risk level is pretty much the same as RFC9000, except maybe there are more CIDs available.

Author: Okay, you are right but I think we need to fix this in a separate PR. I would like to propose this following small fit for now and then merge this PR for now and start a new (slightly more than editorial PR):
```suggestion
and the number of concurrent path validation attempts is limited by number of issued connection IDs.
```

> and as auch there can be only one path validation at a time.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

and thus only one path validation at a time.

> and as auch there can be only one path validation at a time.

Author: ```suggestion
and as such only one path validation at a time.
```

This extension, however, allows for multiple open paths that could in theory be migrated
all at the same time. Further multiple paths could be initialized
simultaneously. Each open path could be used to further amplify an attack.
Therefore, endpoints need to limit the maximum number of paths and might consider
additional measures to limit the number of concurrent path validation processes
e.g. by pacing them out or limiting the number of path initiation attempts
over a certain time period.

## Cryptographic handshake and AEAD Nonce

The multipath extension as specified in this document is only enabled after a
successful handshake when both endpoints indicate support for this extension.
Respectively, all new frames defined in this extension are only used in 1-RTT packets.
As the handshake is not changed by this extension, the transport security mechanisms
as specified in {{QUIC-TLS}}, such as encryption key exchange and peer authentication,

> remain unchanged. As such also the respective security considerations in {{QUIC-TLS}} apply unaltered. However, note that the limits as discussed on Appendix B of {{QUIC-TLS}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
remain unchanged. As such, the respective security considerations in {{QUIC-TLS}} apply unaltered. However, note that the limits as discussed on Appendix B of {{QUIC-TLS}}
```

apply to the total number of packets sent on all paths.

This specification changes the AEAD calculation by using the path identifier as part of
AEAD nonce (see {{multipath-aead}}). To ensure a unique nonce, path identifiers
are limited to 32 bits and cannot be reused for another path of the same connection.

> However, note that with the use of this extension, multiple nonces can be in use simultaneously
> for the same AEAD key.

Reviewer 2: This is a first shot, do not hesitate
```suggestion
This implies maintaining some per-path nonce computation state (a Path ID
and a packet number). Altogether, this ensures unique nonces over all the paths for
a same AEAD key.
```

Author: Should we even say:

"this implies maintaining per-path nonce values and computation state..."

?

Author: Okay, how about

"The multipath extension maintains unique per-path nonces for a same AEAD key."

That makes the state aspect a bit more clear...?

Author: ```suggestion
The multipath extension maintains unique per-path nonces for a same AEAD key.
```
Is that okay @qdeconinck ?

Reviewer 2: The only issue I have with this wording is that one may thing nonces are unique per path, which is not correct (nonces are computed in a way that two different paths will always have different values, hence guaranteeing their uniqueness over the whole connection). I fear this last version is ambiguous on this.

Author: Should we just remove the word "unique" then? "nonces for a same AEAD key" implies that they are unique, no?

Reviewer: The method described in {{multipath-aead}} defines the AEAD nonce as a the combination of the IV, the 32 bit path ID, and the 62 bit packet sequence number. The path ID is unique to the path, and a given 62 bit sequence number is only use for a single packet on that path. Combining path ID and sequence number guarantees that AEAD will use a different nonce for each packet sent on the connection.

Author: yes, the point was it's not only unique for the path but actually unique for the whole connection. However, the fact they are unique is not really the point of this sentence, so that's why I proposed to just remove that word here.

Reviewer: It boils down to the definition of "nonce". By definition, "nonce" means "only once", and thus "unique". What the AEAD specification says is a bit fuzzy, with nonce used to designate either the combination of IV+sequence number or the sequence number itself. My preference would be:

The method described in {{multipath-aead}} provides unique AEAD nonces for all packets across all path.

> However, note that with the use of this extension, multiple nonces can be in use simultaneously
> for the same AEAD key.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure that this sentence is needed or even useful; a correct usage of nonces ensures this by design (i.e., no nonce reuse for the same AEAD key).

```suggestion
```

Author: This was added to ensure people encounter for use of multiple nonces in their implementation. Yes, it's hard to get this wrong as you have multiple packet number spaces but it seemed important enough that we wanted to mention it. If there is nothing wrong about this sentence, I propose to keep it.

Reviewer 2: Alright then, though I wonder if we rather want to keep several "nonce computation states" (Path ID + PN) that leads to unique nonces for a same AEAD key.

Author: would be fine for me. Do you want to propose a wording?
